* *
Everything is good

* New game *
What is your name?
What's your sex? (M/F)
Boldness Level:
(1) Low (2) Medium (3) High
Choose your class:
Knight (0)
Mage (1)
Archer (2)
Animal (3)
Thief (4)
Knights are powerful melee warriors. They have great attack, power and vitality and are the strongest warriors in the realm.
Mages have the most magical power. They control the elements and can use supernatural powers to manipulate magic and life.
Archers are fighters specializing in ranged fighting. They use physical power combined with control of the elements.
Animals live in harmony with nature and can enjoy its powers. They have great power over life and incredible agility.
Thieves are the most agile in the entire kingdom. They viciously attack any enemy that crosses their path seeking power and wealth.
Tutorial? (y/n)
Loading...

*Tutorial*
(Press space to skip this step)
Welcome to the tutorial! It's me, the creator of the game! I'll teach you the minimum necessary to play (that is, it will be quick). Use arrow keys to move.
Very good! Good to know that you listen to me. See those bars all over you? They represent your life, magical energy (mana), experience and satiety. (Enter to continue).
If satiety reaches 0 you get hungry and start losing life. To avoid this, you must eat whatever food you find. (Enter to continue).
Now let's open your backpack. Press 'b'.
Congratulations! In your backpack you have different types of items. I gave you a potion of life as a prize. Press enter twice to select and drink the potion.
Now let's learn how to use equipment. I'll give you a weapon ;p, press 'esc' to go back to backpack tabs and 's' to go to equipment. Then hit enter twice to select and equip your weapon.
Wonder! Whenever you want to use an item select it and hit enter or click on it. Only certain items can be used. Now press 'b' again to close your backpack and check your attributes and equipment by pressing 'c'! The/
These are your basic combat, gathering, gold and equipment attributes, as well as your elements. In the other tabs you have your special attributes and statistics. You can use 'w' and 's' to switch between tabs. Press 'c' again to close your window and let's go!
Very good! The next important step is to meet the NPCs. I will quickly introduce them to you. I recommend talking to each of them to learn what they do (Enter to continue).
Time to learn to fight! Let's go to the forest to face some creatures.
When you touch a creature, you enter combat. You can attack on 'a', defend on 'd' and use skills using the keys on the right menu. You can also open your backpack and use items such as potions during battle. Use as many as you like! (Enter to continue).
Finally, let's learn to collect. It's easier than you think. Simply tap on the item you want to collect - berry, herb, wood or metal. On high level maps, you need a good level of collection to collect items.
Very well, know that to survive it is necessary not to be hungry (yellow bar). You can eat berries and other foods you find along the way to satiate yourself. I'll give you five berries to help you get started (Enter to continue).
That's it, you're awesome! You can play freely now. I recommend talking to the pink girl in town to get your first quest. You can see your quests in the 'q'. You still have a lot to learn, but you can get by. If you need help, press 'H' to see hints. Good luck, brave adventurer! (Enter to continue).
This is the item seller! I'll give you 100 gold for you to buy something. Select the item you want and press enter or click on it. Use 'a' and 'd' to see all items for sale.
This is the forger! She forges your equipment, making it stronger. For this it is necessary to use attack (for weapons) and defense (for equipment) runes, as well as special runes for special equipment. Take a level 1 attack rune and forge your weapon with it!
This is your master! Elu teaches you new skills when you level up and helps you evolve! Take a skill point and acquire your first skill!

* Classes *
Knight
Mage
Archer
Animal
Thief

* ProClasses *
Lord
Squire
Archmage
Healer
Ranger
Elementalist
King of the jungle
Wild
Assassin
Mercenary

* Attributes *
Level
Life
Manna
Atq Fis
Atq Mag
Def.
Def Mag
Dexterity
Agility
Critical
stun
Block
bleeding
Poisoning
Silence
Element
Collect
exp
Gold
Satiety

* Player stats *
Number of physical attacks:
Number of skills used:
Number of defenses:
Physical damage dealt:
Physical damage taken:
Magic damage dealt:
Magic damage taken:
Physical damage defended:
Magic damage defended:
Number of hits hit:
Number of hits received:
Number of dodges:
Number of critics:
Critical damage dealt:
Number of stuns:
Number of blocks:
Number of bleeds caused:
Bleeding damage dealt:
Bleed damage defended:
Number of poisonings caused:
Total poison damage:
Poison damage defended:
Number of silences caused:

* Properties of special attributes *
Chance of effect
Attack
Resistance
Basic
Bonus
effect damage
duration

* Collect *
collecting
little berry
herb
wood
metal
you collected
Try again!
You need to increase your gathering level to collect here!

* Victory *
Congratulations, you've leveled up!
Congratulations you won!
You got:

* Equipment *
Weapon
Shield
Armor

* Doctor *
Hello, would you like to treat these wounds?
Have a good day!
Hi, good to see you doing well!

* Equipment seller *
Hello, what do you want to do?
Choose your equipment!
Check back often!

* Item seller *
Hello, what do you want to do?
What do you want to buy?
Until later!

* Smuggler *
Hello, what do you want to do?
What do you want to buy?
Until later!

* Banker *
Hi, would you like to use the bank?
How much would you like to save?
How much would you like to withdraw?
Please enter a number:
You don't have all that money!
You don't have the money to pay the 1% fee!
Money saved, see you later!
Here's your money, see you later!
Thank you for coming!

* Alchemist *
Hello, do you want to brew potions with your herbs?
Choose the potion you want to brew:
You don't have the necessary ingredients!
Thank you for coming!

* Lumberjack *
Hello, do you want to exchange your wood for pet food?
Thanks for the wood!
You have no wood!
See you!

* Master *
Hello, want to increase your skills?
To the next!
Wow, how you've grown! Are you ready to evolve?
Which class do you want to evolve to?
Congratulations! Now you are a:
In this case, do you want to increase your skills?

* Quest *
Hello, do you want to be part of a mission?
Congratulations, you completed the mission! Here's your prize!
You are now part of the mission:
To the next!

* Forger *
Hi, do you want to forge your equipment?
What equipment do you want to forge?
Forged item!
You need an appropriate rune for this equipment!
You need to equip the equipment first!
I'm sorry, the forge didn't work! Try again!
To the next!

* Manufacturer *
Hi, want to craft items?
Choose the item you want to manufacture:
How many items do you want to manufacture?
You don't have the necessary materials!
Thank you for coming!

* Savior *
Hi, do you want to save the game?
Which slot would you like to save to?
Your game is saved!
To the next!

* Elemental *
Hello, do you want to change the element of your equipment?
What equipment do you want to change?
Which sphere do you want to use?
You need to have the equipment equipped!
Added element!
You don't have the necessary ingredients!
Thank you and see you later!

* Citizen 0 *
I want to travel to other cities and get to know this whole world. It would be so easy if it weren't for these disgusting creatures!
These worms roam the forest assaulting adventurers, plundering innocent citizens.
Damn creatures, they could kill them all!

* Citizen 1 *
Great are the masters, who train adventurers from basic to higher classes.
Only the bravest make it to these classes, but the hard training to achieve them pays off.
Nothing compares to the power of those who reach the upper classes.

* Citizen 2 *
Good equipment and forged equipment. The forge intensifies all the qualities of the equipment.
It takes a skilled forger to reach a high forge level without breaking equipment.
However, the refined properties pay off. Legend has it that equipment with a high level of forge even exhibits a peculiar glow.

* Citizen 3 *
It's very exhausting having to go back to the city every time I get hurt. That's why I always take a tent with me on my adventures.
Camping outdoors is the best thing. Invigorates energies. It revitalizes the body and soul.
I learned how to make my tent from a traveler who taught me how to make a tent in exchange for some items.

* Citizen 4 *
We mages are lucky to know how to manipulate arcane energy.
Every living being is born with it, but only with training can you learn to use it.
Arcane energy can be used to heal wounds or to harm others and is unaffected by physical defenses.

* Citizen 5 *
Pff, I don't know what we would do without the elements, the fundamental forces of our universe.
When I come across very strong creatures, I can only beat them using the right element.
Using magical, elemental, and natural forces to your advantage is a mage's true power.

* Citizen 6 *
Have you heard the legend of the super element?
When a living being gathers all the equipment of the same element, it becomes the super element.
It is said that the super element gives special powers, making the user receive the properties of the element.

* Citizen 7 *
This forest is so big, it's very easy to get lost in there.
I heard that an adventurer once made a map, it must be somewhere in the forest.
They say that his map is so advanced that it even shows his location. There is! How could that be possible?

* Citizen 8 *
Not all creatures are terrestrial. I once fished one out of the ocean.
They look like they roam in the waters, but they have a bluish color that makes them difficult to see.
Be very careful if one day you decide to enter the water without a boat, some creature may bump into you.

* Citizen 9 *
The forest is big, but not everyone. In addition to the waters and trees there are other continents.
I personally have been to an island, taking the boat from the pier, of course.
But there are rumors that there are still other lands out there.

* Citizen 10 *
You know, just because your gear is fire doesn't mean it always has to be fire.
There are certain powerful spheres, called elemental spheres, capable of changing the fundamental element of a piece of equipment.
Of course, this requires an equally powerful being who knows how to use the spheres. Good thing we have one in our city.

* Citizen 11 *
Crafting items and gear is one of the best ways to get quality stuff, but there are so many!
How to discover and memorize all recipes? Glad they made a book for that.
Whoever made it is probably out on adventures now, but I'm sure you wouldn't mind sharing the knowledge.

* Citizen 12 *
Ah, how wonderful nature is. Provides free herbs, wood and other materials for us to collect.
Of course, gathering requires skill, to collect high-level materials you need to have a high gathering level.
But we animals have a natural facility for these things. Some of us even collect double!

* Citizen 13 *
The world is so rich with different creatures. I want to know everything about them!
It's hard to memorize them all, but that's what the bestiary is for. In it you record information about creatures you have already encountered, such as an agenda.
It's not easy to put together a bestiary. An adventurer who passed through here once had one. He must be out in the world by now.

* Citizen 14 *
As much as some creatures are aggressive, we have to learn to love them. They are animals like us.
When the bond between a creature and an adventurer is strong enough, it can become a pet.
The pet and its companion are inseparable and when they are together the adventure becomes much easier.

* Citizen 15 *
Most creatures are cute like us, but there are more dangerous creatures. Have you ever heard of the dragon?
He lives near here, but in lands so hot that only high-class adventurers can enter.
The dragon lives peacefully in its abode, but there are many adventurers who want to challenge it.

* Citizen 16 *
I don't care what they say, money is what matters in this world! Many powerful equipment can only be found in stores.
Of course, you can also make them yourself, but how will you know which items you need?
Crafting is a handy way to get valuable items at low cost, but I'd rather buy them with the hard-earned money I stole!

* Citizen 17 *
A strong adventurer is a well-equipped adventurer, that's what everyone says. But even the most powerful equipment is better forged.
The forge is made with precious stones, called attack and defense runes. Special equipment requires special runes.
There is! But of course you can also earn some serious cash by selling them on the black market. Especially the high level ones.

* Citizen 18 *
Normal equipment can be powerful, but it only has brute strength. Special equipment on the other hand gives all sorts of power.
They are not found in normal creatures or shops, they can only be made or bought illegally from smugglers.
However, they are great for intensifying the special effects of your attacks and giving you the edge in battle.

* Citizen 19 *
So much land, so much land... have you ever thought how many treasures must be buried in it?
Why wear yourself out hunting creatures when you can pack a shovel and look for treasures underground?
Find is also stolen, even under the ground! It's my motto.

* Sailor 1 *
Hello, do you want to travel to the island?
Thank you, until next time!

* Sailor 2 *
Hello, do you want to go back to the mainland?
Thank you, until next time!

* Quest exp *
Hi, can you get rid of some creatures for me?
Excellent! Here are the creatures you need to hunt:
creatures to kill
Please, I need you to hunt more creatures.
It cost! Accept this reward:
Okay, until next time then.

* Quest items *
Hi, can you get some items so I can craft something?
Excellent! Here are the items you need to pick up:
Items to get:
Please, I still need more items.
It cost! Here, you can have what I made:
Okay, until next time then.

* Body parts *
Hair
Eyes
Head
Arms
Shirt
Shoe
Legs

* Treasures *
Congratulations, you've collected a treasure!
You got:

* Backpack menus *
Potions
Alchemy
Runes
Pet
Food
Arrows
Equips
Items
Factory
Quest

* Pterodactile *
Up there, traveller! In this land there is a dragon!
Why am I telling you this? Because I'm a dinosaur, of course, and dinosaurs are cool!

* Names of continents *
Forest
Cave
Island
Volcano
land of snows
Special

* Message from the plates *
Welcome to the city of knights! To the south is the city of thieves. To the southwest is the city of wizards. To the east is the city of archers. To the northeast is the city of animals.
Welcome to the city of wizards! To the west is the city of thieves. To the northwest is the city of knights. To the north are the cities of archers and animals.
Welcome to the city of archers! To the southwest is the city of thieves. To the west is the city of knights. To the south is the city of wizards. To the north is the city of animals.
Welcome to the city of animals! To the southwest are the cities of thieves and knights. To the south are the cities of wizards and archers.
Welcome to the city of thieves! To the north is the city of knights. To the east is the city of wizards. To the northeast are the cities of archers and animals.

* Customization menu *
Customize your character!
Enter to start.
Body part:

* Quest menu *
quests
creatures
Items

* Options menu *
Music:
Sound effects:
Show player range:
Damage animation:
Controls:
Up selection:
Left selection:
Selection down:
Right selection:
Schoolbag:
Character screen:
Manufacturing book:
Map:
Pet screen:
Options menu:
quest menu:
Tips menu:
To assemble:

* Tip menu *
Tip
Previous
Next
(Enter to close)
You can open the hint window at any time by pressing "H".
Try hovering over things.
In the default settings "W" and "S" move the menus up and down and "A" and "D" left and right. "Esc" returns to the previous menu.
Remember to always have food in reserve so you don't starve, especially on long trips!
Talk to your master every time you level up to gain new skills or strengthen the ones you already have.
When you die you lose 20% of your money. To avoid losing it, you can keep your money in the bank by paying a fee of 1% of the deposited amount and 1% again to withdraw.
Buy equipment as building a complete set gives you a 20% bonus to equipment properties. You can also make your own set!
To learn what ingredients are needed to craft items and equipment there is a crafting book that can be obtained through quest.
Tired of getting lost walking around? Each continent has a map that has a quest npc ;).
Want a playmate? Do the pet quest! Your pet will help you in battles and will be able to use potions and equipment, just don't forget that he also needs to eat!
The forge might not make much difference at low levels, but believe me, it makes all the difference at high levels. However, be careful! If equipment breaks during forging, it will be lost.
Forging weapons for higher levels requires higher level attack runes. Forging equipment requires defense runes. Forging special equipment and weapons requires special runes!
Crafting allows you to obtain useful items and equipment that provide special bonuses, such as extra health and increased critical strike. Many of this equipment can only be obtained through crafting.
Elemental orbs are rare, but can be used to change the element of your weapon and equipment in the Elemental npc. Elemental weapons and equipment increase your damage dealt and reduce your damage taken when used against the right creatures.
If all your gear has the same element, it becomes your super element. Each super element gives you a special power!

* Skills bar *
skills

* Dimensions *
Length
Height
Width

* Colors *
Red
Green
Blue

* player window *
Basic
specials
Statistics

* Bestiary *
bestiary
Level
Life
exp
Gold
Items
_
